 RArcInfo - 0.1

- INTRODUCTION

 This package enables R to import data from Arc/Info  V7.x binary
coverages. It uses the wonderful functions written by 
Daniel Morissette <damno@videotron.ca> to import/export data
from binary coverages from/to E00 ASCII files.
Please, notice that all the code under the RArcInfo/src/avce00 is
copyright of Daniel Morissette, who is the original writter.
I didn't write any code inside this directory.

Since all the code must be in the RArcInfo/src directory (and Windo$s doesn't allow
symbolic links), I have copied some files from RArcInfo/src/avce00 to it. 
The only files I have written are RArcInfo.c and RArcInfo.h. All the other ones 
are copyrighted by Daniel Morissette.

- THE CODE

 Basically, there is a function to import each type of file (ARC, LAB, etc.) in the
coverage directory.
Please, notice that RArcInfo is a work in progress.

 Nowadays, the list of functions RArcInfo provides is:

-get.namesofcoverages(dir)

  Provided the name of the directory where the coverage (dir) is,  it returns
the names of all the coverages... Well, it really returns all the file and directory
names in the directory 'dir'.

- get.tablenames(dir)
  
  Returns all the table names plus some aditional data, like the number of 
records. More information about this can be found in the help. 

- get.tablefields(infodir, tablename)

 Returns the name of the fields of the given table.

- get.XXXdata(infodir, coverage, filename)

  Returns the data of the given filename into a R list. XXX can be:

   arc, bnd, pal, lab, cnt, tol

- get.tabledata(infodir, coverage, tablename)


There also also another two functions to plot arcs:

-plotarc(arc, new=T)

 This plot all the arcs returned by get.arcdata. If we want
to rebuild the limits in the axis we should set new=T. In other case 
we should set new=F. This is useful when you want to draw some coverages.

plotpal(arc, pal, new=T)

 Now we only plot the arcs defined by pal (returned from a call to 
get.pladata).

- EXAMPLE

Let us suppose we have all the data (in format Arc/Info V7.x) under the directory
/usr/gis/data. We'll have a directory called "info", where some files with information
about all the coverages is stored. We have two coverages called "Lakes" and "Rivers"
under the directories "lakes" and "rivers".

/usr/gis/data-/
              |
	      |
	    |-----|------|
	   info  lakes rivers

To import the arcs from the lakes coverage we can write and store them in a variable
called arclakes, we can write:

arclakes<-get.arcdata("/usr/gis/data/","lakes","arc.adf")

Notice the final slash in the first argument and the name of the file where the data
are stored. This is the more common name, but it may change.

To import the polygons  we write:

pallakes<-get.arcdata("/usr/gis/data/","lakes","pal.adf")

To plot all the lakes:

plotpal(arclakes, pallakes)


You can find another example under the directory "tests" in the source package.


* TODO

- Improve the documentation quality.
- Improve the plot functions
- Write functions to perform searches in tables.
- In get.toldata the default filename is "tol.adf", which is the one for single
	precision coverages. For double precision coverages it should be "par.adf".

Please, I would like to hear suggestions from the users in order to improve this package.


EXAMPLE DATA

The data under the directory "RArcInfo/exampleData" has been downloaded from
the web of the UNEP/GIRD-Arendal (http://www.grida.no/baltic/index.htm). I would
like to thank Hugo Ahlenius and Sindre Langaas for their help and soon answers.

This site also provides more data about the Baltic Sea Region and the
countries around it. I only took the data from wetlands because of its small
size, but there are many more data available to download for free there.


ABOUT RARCINFO AND ARC/VIEW

Some people have written to me asking whether this package is able to import/export
data from/to Arc/View in the same way that the extension for the S-Plus does. 
The answer is no, but I think it can be done using the R-(D)COM server and
writting the code for this (of course ;-) ). I will give it a try in the
next weeks. 


RARCINFO AT SOURCEFORGE

I have opened a project at www.sourceforge.net in order to keep there all
the source code. When I have more spare time I will make a beatiful web page too...

NEWS

* V 0.1
	- Function get.bnddata now works properly.
	- The data returned by the functions get.XXXdata (XXX=arc, pal, cnt) have been
	changed to a data frame (a table with some fields of the data and named columns) and 
	a list (that stores de coordinates of the points, etc.). 
	- Besides, the data returned by the functions get.tablenames, get.tablefields, 
	get.tabledata, get.XXXdata (XXX=lab, tol) has changed too. Now they are
	data frames with named columns.
	- get.namesofcoverages now returns only the names of the directories where
	the data are stored.
	- The links to Daniel's code has been deleted and I have copied the files
	into the src directory in order to be able to compile the package for
	Windows.

* V 0.03
	- Added some example data and a test.
	- Added some defaults values for the variable "filename" in some get.XXXdata functions.
	- Fixed some minor bugs.
	- Keywords added.


Enjoy!

 Virgilio Gómez Rubio


P.S:

 If you find this package useful, please, feel free to make suggestions to improve it
and to send (nice) postcards to:

  Virgilio Gómez Rubio
  Dpto. Estadística e I.O.
  Facultad de Matemáticas
  Avda. Vicent A. Estellés, 1
  46100 Burjassot (València)
  Spain
